Hello and welcome to the lecture where we're going to be creating the Brain Trainer app so this is going
to take a lot of the concepts that we've learned the timer and some other things.
Bring them all together we're going even tap into some old stuff like working with the grid layout We're
also going to be talking about working with random numbers and stuff just lots of good things.
But this is the app that you want to make.
So it's going to say Brain Trainer it's going to have this nice Go button as soon as you hit this boom
all sudden you're in this game where you've got a timer up at the top left.
You've got this math problem what's two plus four.
I think that's six.
You hit that says oh you're correct and it's keeping track of your score.
If you answer a question wrong it will tell you that you're wrong and say you know you only got one
out of this and you know so you can just keep trying as many times as you can as long as you've got
time here.
And you know it's kind of you know how many questions can you get right in a certain amount of time
and you know if you want to you can keep track of the percentage that you know use or God or whatever.
So once it's finished we want to tell the user that you know game over and they can hit play again here
and then that means that they can start a fresh new game.
So of course this is a challenge for you do as much of this as you can on your own.
A quick tip for you is that when you're working with these buttons it's nice to use something called
tags so you can go ahead and Google to learn a little bit more about that.
Or you can say you know what I'm doing this my own way I'm not going to worry about this tag's stuff
whatever you'd like.
So go ahead create this then come back watch how I do it if you ever need some help.
I'm there for you.
But let's go ahead and start building this thing.
Hit pause now.
All right let's go ahead and start our new project here.
We're going to go ahead and just call it Brain Trainer.
Excellent.
And we just want the standard for everything here.
So just go ahead and go through that process.
So at the very first place that we want to start with this is that big start button right so someone
can hit go there.
That's going to go ahead and launch everything that you can then start with them.
You know a big part of that is we've got to make that button disappear.
So then we can show the actual math problems and sort of this quiz question stuff that we saw earlier.
So I think visually Let's go ahead and get that side up first and then we'll go ahead and work on the
code in order to make that go away.
So go ahead and go to our activity main SML wait for this to come up Android studio screaming I was
like hey come on.
I just created this thing give me a second to get you know everything up and running here.
OK.
Android studio will give you a second but nothing much more.
All right Android studio finally finished here.
And so first thing I want to do.
Let's get rid of the tech's view that we have and there we go that's gone now we want to bring out a
button and we just want this thing to be in the center of the screen so I'm going to right click and
say you should be cental horizontally and parent also center vertically imperent.
Good.
Now the actual text that should go here I like go with the exclamation point.
That looks good to me.
I want to do a little bit of styling with this.
So there's a couple of things that I want to change and I guess before we get into that right here in
this enclave we should give this a name.
So I'm just going to call this start game.
Once we got that in place then I want to go you know fix some of these text issues here.
So the first one is I want to go fix the font size so let's go ahead and see text size here.
Let's go ahead and bump up.
0 looks like a little bit bigger.
Really want to show that.
You know we're going to get this thing off to a bang.
Excellent.
There we go.
The next thing that we want to do is we want to add some padding to this so you know we want to make
sure that there's just kind of some extra space around here so maybe let's see what it looks like with
20 DP grew out quite a bit.
I mean we could maybe go a little more let's see 40.
Yeah that's that's looking much better.
OK.
The next thing that we want to do is we want to be able to work with the background color so let's go
ahead and move this out in the background tint.
This is where we want to change this so if you go ahead and hit this little ellipses you can choose
some different colors here.
And let's go ahead and see what this green one looks like.
Oh yeah.
That is what we are looking for.
All right.
Hit the switch back here.
Going to give this a proper ID.
I'm going to call this go button and once we've got that in place we can then go ahead and write the
code so that when someone clicks on this they can go and get that thing to disappear.
So what we want to do is create a new function here void and we call this start.
And of course this is going to have a view as a parameter.
We got to make sure with this view that we hit enter there so we get the proper stuff imported and we'll
do our curly brackets and here we're going to use what we learned last time and that's setting the visibility
of the button to be invisible.
Now in order to do that we have to have access to the button.
So we'll come up here as a property of this class will say button and we'll call this our Go button.
OK.
And then inside of our create This is where we'll properly set this up.
So we'll say you know go button is equal to find view by id capital our Id go button.
Here we go.
It looks like we didn't hit enter on this to get the proper imports up there.
OK.
Now that we got that we can say Go button dot and we're going to set the visibility.
And with this visibility we wanted to say capital view dot and we'll say in visible.
So let's go ahead and give this a run on the simulator.
Make sure this is good to go.
And then you know we can move forward.
All right so the EP finally loaded here let me go ahead and click on the button and look at that.
It disappears just like we were hoping for so that's the easy part.
Now we got to get into the more difficult stuff.
All right so let's go ahead and work on the visual side of this app a little bit more.
And for one simplicity of not always having to hit the go button and also save us some time and make
it easier to work here.
We're going to go ahead and select this button and we're going to change its visibility to be invisible
so that we can add some more things here.
But then also we don't always have to click this every single time that we open up the out.
So we need to add some text fuse for example we need the timer up here we need to have the score up
here and then we also need to have some users trying to figure out there as well.
So let's go ahead and add some text views We'll start first with the top left and let's go ahead and
just add sort of what the defaults are.
There are 16 and 16 and the text that's going to go inside of here it maybe would be something like
you know 30 seconds.
Now that's quite small.
So I think we should go ahead in up the text size here so scroll down.
Let's go to our text size maybe try something like 40.
Yeah that's looking pretty good.
Then let's go ahead and scroll the very top here.
We want to change the padding nebulas just go ahead and put 10 around that and then we want to go ahead
and add some background color here so we'll go ahead say that we want a color and for this one.
Let's go ahead and choose.
Maybe something like this.
Light orange K that looks good.
Next thing that we want to add here is another text view.
Let's go ahead and add this one that should go in the top right.
Now this is going to contain the score for the user.
So if we don't click on this you know it may be something for initially be something like 0 0.
Then we got to go do all of our classic stuff here.
So our size you know we'll set that 240 and we want to go to our padding set that to 10 and let's go
ahead and give this background color.
Wow.
There it is.
And for this one you know let's go ahead and choose a different color.
Maybe try it like this light blue.
Nice OK looking good then.
Oh and I forgot with this we didn't set the proper constraints on this so let's go ahead and switch
back here.
I'm going to put 16 at the top and we want this to be 16 on the right.
So let's go ahead and use that.
And we are saying why is that thing so squished to the side.
Well it's because we didn't put anything in there that would make sense.
All right.
And then last thing that I want to add here for now is just a sum that's going to show up in the middle
of the screen.
So for this one let's go ahead and right click and you know say that this thing should be centered horizontally
within the parent.
And then we want it a certain distance from the top so maybe it is just go ahead and choose 16.
For now we can go ahead and play around with this.
But again with this text we want to go ahead and bump it up.
Maybe not as much as some of the others.
Let's see what you know.
Something like 30 DP looks like.
And then let's go ahead and set some padding on this one and since we kept smaller size maybe let's
try like 15 padding to see what that looks like.
Looks good to me.
And really the last thing that we want to check here is just change the text so maybe it would be some
sort of example problem like 31 plus 7 k.
So we've got that in place we've got you know the timer the score this let's go ahead and give proper
IDs to all these things here.
So for this one let's go ahead and call it some text view.
You know it's kind of like oh it's just some old text you know some as in you know adding numbers together
for our timer here let's appropriately call it timer text view.
And then lastly we want to go ahead and take this one and call it score it text for you.
Now there's nothing like you know sacred or absolutely essential of calling the score text viewer timer
or text.
These are just names that I've decided upon.
And you can use completely different ones if you want but I think the more descriptive you are of what
it is that you have here the more that that's going to help.
All right the next thing that we need to do is we need to add all the buttons so that the user can make
an answer.
Right.
There's four possible answers there.
And so in order to do that I think we should use a grid layout.
So we want to go over to layouts choose grid layout and we'll just go ahead and drag and drop one of
these here on the screen so we want to now hit the constraints for that.
So we'll maybe do some of the regular ones there.
Now with this one this 8 we actually want to go ahead and get rid of that for a second because we want
this to go all the way down to the bottom here.
There we go.
So now let's go ahead and select this at our bottom constraint and we'll do our left up right.
All that good stuff.
Excellent.
OK so we've got our grid lay out in an excellent position.
Now we need to actually go about the business of adding in the buttons.
So let's go ahead and add in one button.
And when you're adding this you want to make sure you kind of just go directly into the grid layout
like that.
Not necessarily in there.
And the reason is we've got to set a couple of things about this particular button.
So we're actually going to go over to the text view of this and we're going to scroll down until we
find that particular button.
Here you can see it's the last one and we have a couple of extra things that we want to fill in here.
So as for the text we want it to be some sort of number.
Right because it's supposed to be the answer to something so maybe you will say like 14 or something
there.
But there's also a lot of other things that we want to add.
So the first one being because we are working with the play out we're going to say Android and then
we want to do lay out a column and we're going to go ahead and set this equal to zero.
Next thing that we want to do is we don't want to say Android we now want to do a lay out row so scroll
down till we find that there we go.
We're going to set that equal to zero as well.
The next thing that we want to do is set column width and row with so or excuse me wait.
So we're going to do Android lay out call them wait and we'll go ahead and set that equal to 1.
And we also want to do this again and we're going to say lay out and we want to get the wrong weight.
There we go we'll set that to 1 all right then one more option we're going to do Android lay out and
we want to set the gravity so we're going to set this equal to fill.
I love the auto completes on here just makes it so so much easier to be working with.
And then the last thing that we want to set up is the tags so what since we're going to have for buttons
here we want to have tags for each of them.
That kind of say you know hey this is the zeroth button the one button the two button three button whatever.
So we're going to go here and we're going to say Android tag and we're going to set this equal to zero.
All right.
So this is looking pretty good.
There's a couple of more attributes that we want to set.
So let's go ahead and go back to the design here for a second and we'll just set all of these now over
here.
So the first one being we want to you know mess with this text a little bit.
I think it's too small so let's go ahead and edit this text size and let's make this really big.
I'm going to say you know something like 80 might end up being too big.
Well we'll see what happens there.
Also we want to have a good background color for this.
Let's go ahead and move up to our background and we will choose a color maybe for this one.
I'll choose more Red King and let's see oh the enclave.
We've got to say what happens you know when someone wants to tap on one of these and so some cool that
we're going to do is for each of the buttons we're going to put the same on clay which is going to be
choose answer.
But then this way regardless of which button gets tapped on one choose answer.
So regardless of which one gets to have this function going to get called and then it's just going to
be a matter of choosing the right tag to see that we got that correct.
But once we have all of that in place as Button is looking good we just need to essentially duplicate
this.
We're going to go back to our text here.
And then what we're going to do is we're going to take our whole button here and just copy and paste
the whole button.
And copy that.
And then we're going to paste it three more times so that we have a total of four buttons and if we
did this successfully we should see the four buttons showing there but there's a couple of things that
we've got to edit with each.
So the first one for this button we're going to call this button zero for its IDs so that we know it
can kind of be unique and it's got a tag of zero right.
And we're going to keep the column at zero.
We're going to keep the row at zero for this next button.
We're going to have the column B 1 K and we're going to have the ID on this one be one.
We're going to keep the ROE at zero.
But the tag We're also going to update to one so that you can see we get a little bit of a difference
there.
OK.
We're going to come down this is going to be button number two.
So we're going to keep a column at zero.
But this time make the row one.
We're also going to update this tag to be two so it connects with the buttons so we so far have button
0 1 2 and then the last one here.
This is going to be our button three.
Let's go ahead and up.
It's tagged the three in them for both the row and the column.
We're going to set those equal to one.
And there you can see we have the four buttons.
So that's all looking good.
Really the last thing that we just got to change here is the colors for each of those are going to go
ahead and update this.
And you can see we're getting an air here because it's saying hey you know you said that there's going
to be this method handler called choose answer but there isn't one.
Well you know give us a second here Android studio we'll get to that.
But we'll select this button.
Let's go ahead and change its color.
Maybe do like purple for this one.
And then with this guy.
Let's go ahead and see what colors we've got here.
Let's maybe do like a darker blue OK and then this one let's see if we can get something a little bit
lighter.
Let's try like a light green.
Yeah.
There we go.
OK.
So we successfully have the buttons showing up here inside of a grid layout which is great.
We also have buttons with the appropriate colors and everything and we have these kind of cool tag tag
system.
It's going to make it just that much easier to work with when we're trying to you know identify hey
you know what button was that they chose for all this.
So one last thing we want to fix is with this grid layout we want to change it's lay out height and
we want this to be rap content.
And by doing this it's just going to go to however big you know those buttons happen to be.
So when we do this we're gonna have to go ahead and edit our top constraint here to make this a little
bit more saying that hey we need this to go exactly the same.
But then for the bottom we're going to go ahead and delete the bottom constraint so that way it's just
kind of up at the top and you know we feel like we need more space here we can always bump this up you
know to be something like 15 but you can totally choose that last thing that we just want to do is we
want to add one last text view.
I know we've been doing a lot of visual stuff here but we're almost done.
And with this text feel it's go ahead and have it be certain with the above.
Right now it's connecting to the go button which that's probably fine.
We might want to change that later to be actually connecting there but we'll go ahead and roll what
we have with for now and let's go ahead and change this to say.
Correct.
So this is going to show whether they got the answer correct or incorrect.
So let's go ahead and change some of the attributes for this.
The biggest one just being the text size so let's see what maybe something like 50 looks like yeah that's
pretty good.
Let's make sure we get this centered.
So go ahead and say Center horizontal and parent looks good and really then the last thing that we just
want to do is go give that a proper ID.
So we'll call this the old text view.
And with that we finally have the visual part of this app ready to go.
In fact if we want to go ahead and just make sure that this is looking like what we thought it was let's
go ahead and give this a run on the emulator.
But outside of that I mean we're just have to kind of programmatically connect everything up now.
So we're at a pretty good place.
So here comes the app go ahead and have our simulator here and look at that.
Yeah.
Android does a great job of showing you the preview of what you know your layouts going to look like
when you run on the actual device it's almost always exactly the same which is great.
OK.
So let's go ahead and work on getting things working programmatically.
All right let's go ahead and jump over to our java file here.
We'll go ahead and write the code to make all this magical stuff happen so the first thing that we've
got to do is we've got to make it so that we can determine what numbers we should be adding together.
Right.
What is going to be the problem that we're trying to get the user to solve.
So we need to have two different integers and I think probably the best way to represent these is just
with two integers maybe one called A We could set to some number and one called B that will set equal
to another number but we don't want to always want it to be 5 or 6 for example right like we want it
to be random every single time.
So in order to do that we need to introduce some randomness.
So we're going to say random and make sure you hit enter on that to get the import and we'll call our
randomness Rand.
We're going to set this equal to new random.
Excellent.
And now that we have this we can go ahead and take this and say OK a you're going to be equal to Rand
dot next.
And you can actually pass in you know how many numbers you want to go through and we want our numbers
to be between 0 and 20 so we're going to pass in 21 because we're saying we want you to pick 21 different
numbers.
The lowest being zero the highest being 20.
So that's going to kind of be our range.
One do the exact same thing for B.
So we're going to say Rand thought next it and we're going to pass in a bound of 21 there.
OK.
So what this does is it says successfully chooses random numbers for a and for B.
And so as our next step let's go ahead and display this to the user here to say you know here's a plus
b.
So we need to get access to that text view.
And I guess I should have checked and seeing what the idea of this is some text view.
There we go.
So let's go over here inside of our on create we've got a new text view and we'll call this some text
view.
Be equal to fine view.
By Id our ID text you.
Excellent.
Now that we have access to the text view we can say some text for you set text.
And we got to do a little bit of conversion to make these events into strings.
But let's go ahead and say integer to string it will pass and then we want to add a string where we
have a space the plus button and then another space.
Now we're going to add onto this another integer that we shall turn into a string to string.
There we go.
And we want to pass and b this time case so we should be able to see that let's go ahead and give this
a quick test.
Make sure it's working.
We should see two new random numbers because currently what we have is 31 plus 7 so we definitely shouldn't
see 31 because we're supposed to have numbers between 0 and 20.
And let's check it out.
Look at that 18 plus 18.
And that's kind of surprising that we got the exact same number.
I want to run that one more time just because you know maybe it was just odd that it randomly picked
those same numbers.
Zero plus zero
Let's run this one more time is it really possible that it picked the same two numbers two times in
a row.
I'm starting to think we have an issue with our code.
Yeah six plus six.
It's just it's too perfect that it's you know going and grabbing these things so we have a we have in
B we're turning this into a string turning that into a string.
I just don't know why it would be doing this.
I mean I keep getting run like I'm expecting.
Look at that Kate you guys saw this on video.
I was checking like the code was right three times in a row A and B were the exact same thing.
I mean what are the odds of that.
I mean if someone knows statistics go run the odds on that I feel like I should go buy a lottery ticket
or something.
Holy cow that was.
That was freaky.
But anyways.
Ok that's good.
We were successfully able to get our two drivers to show up man.
I'm still just kind of freaking out about what just what just happened here.
But OK but we got to keep moving even though crazy things like this happen.
And the next thing that we want to do is we want to set what these you know answers should be one of
them needs to be correct.
The other ones need to be incorrect but we also want the you know answers to be a little bit random
So we kind of got to work a little bit of magic here.
And so I think the best way to handle this is we can make an array that's going to hold all the potential
answers that the user could enter in.
So let's go up here at a new property.
We are going to create an array list and we wanted this to be an array list of integer.
Say OK so I guess we should say of integers but you know we've got to in here say just singular in ger.
There we go.
Finally got my spelling right and I'm just going to simply call this answers.
And this should be equal to a new array list of integers.
OK and we'll do our semi-colon.
All right.
So we have that array list.
Then what we want to do is we want to be able to fill that full of some information.
So probably the best way to handle this is to just use a for loop.
So we'll go ahead and do one of our classic four loops and inside of here we'll start by saying.
Int II should be equal to zero.
We want to know when it is less than we want this to be for because we want this to run four times and
then we want to say each time plus plus K that sued successfully.
Oh I forgot we need the semi-colon there not just the comma.
All right so this should run through four times and each time basically the idea is that we want to
be adding something into the array.
So what we're going to do is we're going to take our answers array.
We're going to say Dot add and this is where we would want to add one of the answers so the first thing
that you know like I said we have to have four incorrect or three incorrect answers and one correct
answer.
So in order to kind of go ahead and do this math first we should determine which one of these boxes
is going to be the correct answer.
So let's go ahead and just use our randomness again.
And what we're going to do is create a new int.
We're going to call this location of correct answer.
OK.
And we are going to set this equal to Rande dot next it.
And we're going to pass in the number four because we want to pick between 0 all the way to 3 and that's
saying you know there's four different integers that could possibly be.
So now that we have this location of the correct answer before we do this answers and we can go ahead
and check and see hey is I which is you know I'm going to be 0 1 2 or 3 and location of correct answer
is going to be either 0 1 2 or 3.
So just say hey if y is equal to the location of the correct answer then we know this.
You know when we do our answers not add that we should simply add whatever A plus B is right.
So very simple We'll just say plus B semi-colon.
Bam.
It's as easy as that.
Now the little bit of a tricky part comes from.
Well if we're not adding a correct answer then we need to add a incorrect answer.
So as far as the incorrect answer goes if we're adding any number between 0 and 20 with another number
from 0 to 20 that means we would have some some That's either going to be between 0 and 40.
So for that we just want to simply say answers dot add and we want to go ahead and add some random number
between 0 and 40.
So we can in fact just go ahead and copy this code from above where we take a random integer and just
pay set in and change it from 21 to 41.
So this could be good but there is one issue with this is for and you saw what my luck is like here.
Earlier when I was filming this what happens if you know the sum of and B happened to be like 14 and
one of the random numbers happens to be 14 right.
That's not a good thing.
That's not what we want to do.
And so what we need to do is we need to have some sort of check to say hey if the random number that
we created is the same thing as a plus be we need to pick a new random number so there's kind of a cool
way that we can do this with a WHILE loop.
We can go ahead and first create an ant that we're going to call the wrong answer.
OK.
So we're going to say the wrong answer is equal to this you know random number between 0 and 40.
Then with this random number what we're going to do is a while loop that says OK while the wrong answer
is equal to a plus b.
All right then we want to get a new wrong answer so we're going to say around.
Answer just exactly the same code as we have here.
Go ahead and paste that is basically saying hey go pick a new one because you know what we were choosing
doesn't add up.
So after all of this this will make sure that we have a unique number that will go ahead and take wrong
answer and add that into the array.
OK.
So we at a pretty good spot here.
We have an array of the correct and the wrong answers really the next step for us is we've got to get
these things to show up inside of our buttons.
So what we're going to do is we're going to move to the top here and we are going to create all of our
buttons in code.
So let's go ahead and make our first button and we'll just call this button zero and this equal to find
view by ID.
Capital art ID.
And then we want button 0 OK.
And then we just need to copy this code for the other three buttons so I'll just copy paste paste paste
and we'll change that to button 1 2 and 3 and then we've got to change these ideas to be 1 2 and 3.
So then this gives us each other buttons.
So then once we have those we just want to set up what the answers to those buttons are going to be.
So we're going to go ahead and start first with Button zero will say button zero dot set text.
And then what we want to pass inside of here is the integer to string of whatever we get from answers.
And this situation we want to get it done get for the zero position k.
This is for Button zero.
And we're just going to go ahead and pass this and change this up for button 1 2 and 3 and then we're
going to go get an x of 1 2 and 3.
OK.
So this should be everything that we need in order to go get this working.
Let's go ahead and run the app make sure it's exactly what we're hoping for.
So go ahead and hit run here on the emulator.
Take a look at what we get.
So one plus one is two.
And then look we get three other answers that are all incorrect but within the range that we want.
OK let's try this again.
We'll hit run and I still can't believe earlier how we were getting the same numbers seven plus 17 that's
going to be 24 I believe and look at that we've got three other answers which are all incorrect.
So we're at a great place but it still got more to do.
All right.
Let's go ahead and add the appropriate code so that the user can actually select one of these answers
that we can tell the user Hey either you're right or you're wrong about what it is that you chose.
So let's go ahead and go back to this main activity.
SML and let's see I just want to remember what was the name of the function that we chose here for the
unclick and maybe that's up at the top.
I'm going to go to the simpler view here.
Choose answer.
OK.
So we're going to create a new function here.
Public void choose answer.
That's going to take in a view just like that and we'll do our curly brackets.
Excellent.
Now the first thing that we want to know is what button was it that the user actually chose.
So in order to get that we have to access the view and if we actually just type out view dot we can
actually do get tag and that's going to show us what the tag is and we can take this thing and turn
it into a string.
So let's just go ahead and log this just to make sure that this is working.
So Lagat.
And we're going to log out the tag.
So first say tag colon and we'll do a comma and print that out.
Excellent.
And there we go.
All right.
Let's go ahead and run this on the emulator and I'll go ahead and pop open Lague cat so we can see what's
going on there.
OK.
Here we go.
So I tap on this button that tag zero.
Tag one dog to tag three so that we are successfully able to figure out what you know button that is
that they are tapping on here which is great.
But then the question is you know how do we make sure that they were choosing the correct one and all
that good stuff.
So the first thing that we essentially got to do is we got to compare this tag to whatever the correct
answer was.
And if you remember down here below we have this location of correct answer but we are choosing this
here inside of this function which means we don't have access to it here so we should take the location
of correct answering and to copy this and delete the declaration and then we'll go ahead and to find
that up here so that we can have access to it in this function.
So all we're going to do is we're going to compare here.
So once we get the views tag and we turn that into a string the next thing that we need to do is figure
out what the correct answer is.
And so we turn that into a string so we're going to do integer to string and we're going to use that
location of correct answer.
OK so we're going to go ahead and compare these two things.
Now remember when you're comparing strings you want to do a dot equals.
So go ahead and throw that in there.
Excellent.
So we want to say if we'll put this in parentheses and just like that do our curly brackets so this
is basically checking hey is the location of the correct answer or the same thing as the tag if it is
then we know that the user got everything right so we'd want to do a log.
I would say Correct correct.
That's not what we want.
Come on now
you've got it.
And the next thing that we'd want to do is put an else here and say hey you know if this didn't happen
we'd want to go ahead and log a wrong and we'll do something like a sad face or something like that.
OK.
So let's go ahead and run this.
And here's the app.
So 18 plus 16 I believe that's 34.
And if we tap on that log cat says you got it.
But if I tap on 20 it's wrong 25 wrong one wrong.
All these are wrong.
But if we go for this you keep saying you got it.
OK.
So good stuff there.
That is all good.
But then think about what is it that we want to have happen next.
Well we want to essentially have a new answer or a new question come through with new answers.
We want to keep score of everything that's going on here and we want to update this text for you like
there's a couple of things that we want to have happen here so I think the first thing we should do
very simply let's just go ahead and get this text view all fixed out.
So we're going to do is we're going to define our text view that I believe we called result text view.
If not that's what I'm going to call it so we're going to call that result text view you know we need
to make sure we set that equal to something here in the create.
So we're going to say result text view is equal to our find view by the idea that these old text view
beautiful then we can use that to rather than just logging some information here.
We can say result text few that said text and we'll say.
Correct.
If they got it correct and if they did not get it correct we'll set the text equal to wrong and let's
do wrong with a frowny face that'll kind of emphasize ring wrong.
On you can spell Nick.
Awesome.
So we've got that in place the next thing that we should do is focus on the score here we want to be
able to keep track of the score.
So let's go ahead and create a new into that we are going to call score.
This will keep track of you know how many things they've gotten right.
We want that initially to be equal to zero.
So we'll start at zero.
So if someone gets a question correct then we want to take this score and do a plus plus to say hey
go ahead and add one onto that if we're going to be doing the score.
We also have to keep track of how many questions in total they've been asked.
So we need a number in which we're going to call a number of questions.
And this will set equal to zero for the start as well.
So regardless of whether they get it right or wrong we want to increase the number of questions here.
Right.
So we'll say a number of questions plus plus it looks good.
And after this I think the next thing that we've got to do is actually update the score to show what
we have.
And so let's go ahead and check what was the idea of that score.
Textfield that's a pretty good name that makes sense so we'll go ahead and say we need a new text view
where you're calling score text view us just to find this for now and then on on create method we will
say score text view in a set that equal to find view by id our DOT ID school or text view.
Excellent.
OK.
So now that that's in place we could actually come here and say OK scored tests for you.
And I'm just going in.
There was a space there that was kind of bothering me.
So score text few set text so basically you want to say the number of their score.
Slash the number of questions right.
You've got like zero out of one or 1 out of 1 something like that.
So we're going to take integer to string.
So we want to take whatever the score is then we're going to add onto this a slash and then add on to
this the number of questions.
But again we've got to convert that to a string string and say Dot to a string and we'll put number
of questions there.
OK.
So let's go ahead and see what this looks like.
We'll open up the app
and
crash for some reason let's try that again.
It really doesn't like what we're doing here.
Let me go take a look at these heir's.
So I figured out what the air was and I just want to show you how I sort of arrived at that situation.
So down here in the air we can see there's some issue with the text view and it's on our main activity
that Java at line 48.
So if we go to line 48 and we can see OK result text view is equal to find view by ID.
Now there's a misspelling here.
But you know there's you know we're not exactly sure what the issue was well what happened as I came
back here.
I accidentally called the whole constraint lay out.
Result text view when I meant it to be this text for you.
So I want to go take this constraint lay out.
It doesn't need an ID right now so I'm just going to delete its ID.
I'm going to come back to this text for you and I'm going to really call this result text view and with
the proper spelling and even misspelled the other one and it was the wrong thing so it was sort of a
double whammy there.
So once we have that we want to go back and then change this code to actually be result text view there
we go.
And now hopefully when we run this that should get rid of that air for us.
So a little bit of debugging there you know.
Happens all the time in programming.
Just you got to know how to find your error.
So let's see 17 but 17 is 34.
Go ahead and tap that.
Look we get a 1 out of 1 let's say I'd pick the wrong answer look at that.
Now I have 1 2 1 3 and it's telling me wrong but if I do you know the correct answer is switches it
back to correct.
And yeah this is good it's keeping track of our score.
We're getting the correct message down here really all that we need to do is we need to reset the whole
game to say OK once somebody goes and decides picks an answer we tell them whether they're right and
wrong are already doing that we update the score but then we also need to go reset the whole game to
say OK you know we need like a new problem in everything.
So as you can probably guess most of this code we need to go move into its own function.
So we're going to go ahead and create a new method public void new question and it won't take in anything
there.
But basically what we want to do is we want to take a lot of code that we have inside of here so basically
everything from random all the way down we're going to go ahead and copy this.
Actually cut rather paste inside of new question and then we want to type out the new question call
the new question method where we had all that before.
So we're going to have a bunch of errors here the big ones are that our buttons are right now created
inside of here and defined here where we actually want to do this up at the top so we can use them in
multiple methods so we'll do button zero.
And I'm just going to go ahead and copy and paste this.
So there's a total of four and I can update this for each of our buttons.
And then inside of here when we are defining our buttons.
There we go.
We will not define we'll just set them equal to something.
So go ahead and delete all of that good.
So that should get rid of a lot of our errors.
Same thing with the some text view.
So I'm going to go ahead and copy this.
Delete the beginning there and then we'll go ahead and paste this up top.
And with that we should see everything better.
So we now have all that code inside of new question.
We do want to make sure that we go ahead and actually call this after we're you know someone has chosen
an answer.
We've updated the number of questions the score all that good stuff.
Then we want to go ahead and call new question.
Now there's one last thing that we have to fix and it may not be obvious and that's that in our code
right now we have this array list that contains all the answers right.
And whenever this is called we're going to basically just add in four extra answers so we've got to
make sure that before we do this for loop where we add everything that we actually clear out everything
that's inside of that array.
So what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and take our ray list which we called answers and
we are going to say clear on this which will essentially wipe out everything there.
So let's go ahead and give this a test.
As you can see we're getting closer and closer to the finished product here.
Once we get this in place it's really going to be that timer that is going to be our central focus.
So let's go ahead and pick a wrong answer.
Like to hear it says wrong we have zero out of one but look at this.
We have a brand new question.
This is our chance at redemption.
So I think the answer to this one is 31.
And look at that.
I was correct.
Now I'm 1 out of tulis choose another wrong answer.
Oh now one out of three the wrong answer one out of four letters to a correct one now three 24.
Look I'm on a hot streak.
Twenty nine.
I feel embarrassed doing math on the fly here although it's kind of exciting.
I don't know.
It will be fun to do it against the timer here.
But yeah I mean the basic functionality is here we're getting new questions and you know incorrect answers
all that good stuff.
But really the next thing that we've got to work on is this timer.
So let's go ahead and write the code for a new timer.
We're going to go to or create method down here and after we've gone ahead and gotten a new question
we want to create a new countdown timer certain and a new count down timer.
There we go.
And inside of here this is where we're going to want to put the time.
So we want our timer to be 30 seconds long so we want to do 30000 milliseconds Although remember we
have to add that one tenth of a second.
So I want to do thirty thousand one hundred there and we want to know every one thousand milliseconds
that you know hey we've got to update some code with this and we'll go ahead and do our curly brackets
there.
Now we want to add the new functions for this.
And I forgot we want to do a start at the end of that.
And now if we hover over here we can implement our two famous methods.
So the first one that we want to do on the on tick.
Basically the only job of on tick is to update the timer text view so we can actually go ahead and grab
a timer or text you let's make a new text.
You hear a story in a text view Taimur text view.
OK then we'll come down on our create and we'll say Taimur text to you equal to find view by ID.
Art ID time or textfield.
There we go.
So since we have access to this basically what we want to do is display the time remaining which is
inside of this long in milliseconds so basically we need to do all divided by 1000 and then we need
to also add on top of this the letter S.
So get ready to tack that on.
But we've got to turn all of this into a strength so we're going to say integer to string and we'll
go ahead and put that.
Oh this is a long.
It's not an integer so this is where we're going to have to say string dot value of.
And this is where we'll do all divided by 1000 and then we'll go ahead and add that S onto there.
So this gives us the string that we want but then we have to put this inside of the timer text for you
so we're going to say time or text view that's set text do not tag that text.
There we go and we'll go ahead and throw that right inside.
So we should see that updating the time as we go along.
And then as far as the finish function goes here this is where we'd want to you know sort of tell the
user hey we finished up with everything.
And so the big thing that we want to do here is we want to update this text view to say hey we are done.
So we'll go ahead and get that.
That is the result text view and we'll set it's text equal to done just like that.
And let's go ahead and run this and see what we get now with our app.
So the big thing that we're looking for is that this timer is going to be counting down and see how
this goes and look at that.
We've got 26 25 right and it's just slowly going down.
This is exactly what we're looking for.
OK.
So with this in place there's a couple of things that we've got to worry about now.
And the big one is that you know after someone has finished we have to you know have a way for them
to sort of play again.
So we want to add a new button to our app so that essentially when this thing goes down to done look
at that so cool that we can actually add a button there and you can see that was a long time to wait
for the timer to go down.
So just while we're testing here I'm just going to make this five seconds.
But again we need to have a button here so let's go ahead and grab a button to put it right below correct.
So first let's go ahead and center this guy that's centered horizontally in a certain space from our
correct there.
We're going to call this
play again button can.
And you know the text for this button should just be play again.
So double click here will change that to saying play again.
I'm going to play again go in I'm not spelling that correctly saying there's something's wrong with
that.
Again there we go.
Great now that we've got this in place we all of us also want to set an on click for this so I'm going
to call that play again and let's go back to our code and add that new method here song I say public
void play again where we go and get a view.
Go ahead and do our little curly brackets there.
So when someone taps on this essentially what we want to do is we want to sort of reset the game for
everybody.
So there's a couple of things that got to happen here.
And I guess the first one is we want this button to be hit initially but then we wanted to be able to
show up so we're going to come on it's visibility and we're going to say that it should be invisible.
But when the game is finished right when we go on our timer Where's our timer friend and we go on the
unfinished after we say done we want to make that button visible.
But first we've got to get access to that button so we're going to say button play again.
And inside of her on create is where we'll get that all set up so say play again is equal to a fine
view by ID.
ID play again.
All right.
Now that we have access to that we want to say OK play again button.
And I just call that play again.
You know we should call that play again button let's be consistent with our name in here.
There we go.
All right so now we can take our play again button and we can go ahead and change the visibility's So
we're going to say set visibility.
We'll see a capital view not visible just like that.
So then all sudden that button is going to be shown which then means if it is shown and then if it is
clicked this play again is going to be called.
And then this is where we sort of want to reset the game.
So the big things that we want to do is we want to set our score equal to zero.
That's a big one.
We want to set the number of questions back equal to zero.
We want to set our timer back to square one so there's a couple of things here first for the timer techs
view.
We want to set it's text to be back to 30 seconds just like that but then we actually want to recreate
the timer.
So what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to cut this timer code here and we'll actually paste it
here.
So this is created and then we'll make it so that when the app opens up for the very first time we'll
just call play again.
So rather than you know here on the uncreate doing this new question of all this stuff we are just going
to call play again now.
The one tricky thing is that play again is asking for a view.
So we can go ahead and just pass it any sort of view.
So I might just go ahead and grab.
I don't know something like this timer text view and go ahead and pass it there it doesn't really matter
because we don't use it inside of the play again function but we just have to kind of put something
in there so that we can call this function.
So we've got the play again and we set the score equal to zero the number of questions equals zero we
get that 30 seconds back.
All that good stuff.
We do want to do our reset of the questions here.
So even before we get this timer started here we want to call our function what did we call that new
question.
So we're going to go ahead and say new question just like that.
So new question this is going to go through and create the answers right go ahead and update all of
that.
There are a few things that aren't happening and that's you know for example we need to reset the score
and whatnot so we can actually just copy this one line of code.
OK we'll take this and we'll paste this as well to say hey go update what the new score is.
And it should just be zero slashes here.
I mean if we wanted to we could hard code 0 0 here.
But you know we already updated those things we might as well just go ahead and do that.
OK.
So let's go ahead and run this.
I'm sure we're going to have more to do but let's just you know make sure we're at least two to an ok
point.
And you know I'm sure by testing this out We'll see what it is that we need to fix on our.
So here it comes I'll try answering a few questions here.
I didn't get anything right here two out of three.
And look at that our play again button showed up.
So all click on that and look at that we went back.
It started the timer again it reset everything.
But the one thing that we missed is this play again button didn't go away.
So that's one thing that we're going to want to fix here.
So let's go ahead and take our play again button.
We're going to set visibility to capital viewed in visible.
So that should get rid of that.
Let's go ahead and try this.
Oh here comes the app.
And you know I'll go ahead and pick some answers here.
And look I only got one out of six that was too bad.
I'll hit play again.
The play again disappears and I'm back to zero score so I can pick a bunch of different things and look
at this and let's make sure the question is changing so I've got three plus 11 is the current one I
hit play again.
Look at that.
Updates it updated to eight plus 11 so just slightly off but it did do that.
So really the last step for us is we just got to make it so that when we first open up the app there's
that nice big Go button.
Everything else is hidden.
And then as soon as we hit that you know it starts the game and all that good stuff.
So one way that we could do this is just go take all these things and you know initially set them into
invisible.
And then when it's time to go we set them equal to visible.
Right.
But that would be a lot of code to do that so one way that we can kind of get around this is we can
add another constraint lay out to our existing constraint lay out and the top constraint will just contain
the go button and the other constraint lay out which will then house all these other items.
So we kind of show you how we can do this.
Go ahead and add a constraint.
Lay out here and like I said the big thing is that we want to have everything but that go button.
So it's like everything else below.
And I'm just going to click and drag and put those inside of the constraint out.
So you'll notice it did kind of move things a bit around but the real thing that it moved was remember
our result Tech's view when I had it based off of the Go button instead of this.
Well we would have had zero issues if I had done it that way but because it was connected there it's
having all sorts of problems so we want to take those results for you.
Just delete the current constraint that it has Let's go ahead and move it down and you'll see correctly
the play button is coming down with it.
And so we'll go ahead and move it down and we'll hit our little plus here to say hey now you should
be connected up with that grid layout.
And once we do that everything's looking excellent.
So with that what we want to do is come back to our code here and on our on Create the one thing that
we want to do is make sure our go button is actually visible instead of invisible so we're going to
go ahead and take this go button that we have just referenced and we're going to say set visibility.
See Capitol view not visible.
That way we can see it and we don't want to do play again Intel the user has actually hit the start
button and is ready to go and so we're going to go ahead and move this up to our start where we set
the go button to be invisible and we start this play again stuff.
But then you know we've got to work with now this new constraint lay out.
Let's give this an I.D. or call this game lay out OK then what we've got to do is reference this game.
So it's a constraint.
Belak correctly constraint lay out a game lay out and then we'll go ahead and set this in the on create
see game lay out is equal to find view by ID or that idea game lay out excellent stuff.
And once we have that in position not only do we want to set the Goes button visibility we want to set
the game lay out visibility
we're going to say view that invisible.
Now you might be wondering well why don't we you know just at the start you know here inside of our
visual stuff set this visibility you know equal to invisible and stuff like that.
And for me it just I'd rather have you know do that code programmatically so I can still come back and
make changes because I really don't care too much about designing that go button it's really more about
these pieces.
So if I had to come back and make some changes it would be nice to have that option there.
And then also with this game layout we want to make sure that it is visible when the game is actually
played so we'll go ahead and switch this to say visible.
Excellent.
And now with all of this in place let's go ahead and make sure on our timer we're doing a full 30 seconds.
Let's go ahead and give this game a try.
So we'll go ahead and hit run here.
OK.
Here comes the app and look at that it's all nice and why it's fairly like OK are you ready to do this.
And I'm going to do this for real.
Let's see how how fast I can get these answers are going to go ahead and hit go.
Seven seven teen 23:6 25 25 24 13:29 59 21 13:29 22 23 and 12 24 6 to 22 on the Dow.
Look at that.
OK so 23 didn't wasn't able to do one every second and that would be that would be speedy if he can.
But let's go ahead and try you know the play again and look at that.
We're ready to go.
So one thing it looks like I did notice is when we got all the way down to zero it had.
It was still showing the message done rather than showing it kind of like going blank for the very first
time.
So maybe you let's go ahead and have that be part of play again.
That's where we go ahead and take our result text view and we're going to set it's text to be just equal
to an empty string and we'll go ahead and run this one more time.
OK.
App opens up we hit go and look at that we can start making some choices to see how many times I can
click this.
Well probably a lot.
So while we're waiting for that timer to run out just want to say to gratz on finishing the SAT.
This was a fairly lengthy chunky app that we made here but pretty awesome functionally like.
And we've taken so many concepts that we've learned and just keep rolling them into these apps like
Hopefully you're starting to really comprehend the stuff that we've got and it's really starting to
get cemented in.
And look at that.
Here it comes let's hit that button.
Oh look at that it is an empty string that's beautiful but we can you know still keep playing game.
Next thing that we're going to move on to is learn how to download some web content so that's going
to be pretty fun.
You've been doing great.
Keep up the energy let's keep truckin.